Update for sane defaults (#877)
unionai/docs: content/deployment/selfmanaged-aws.md

---
title: Data plane setup on AWS
weight: 4
variants: -flyte -byoc +selfmanaged
---

# Data plane setup on AWS

{{< key product_name >}}'s modular architecture allows for great flexibility and control.
The customer can decide how many clusters to have, their shape, and who has access to what.
All communication is encrypted.  The Union architecture is described on the [Architecture](./architecture/_index) page.

## S3

Each data plane uses S3 buckets to store data used in workflow execution.
Union recommends the use of two S3 buckets:

1. **Metadata bucket**: contains workflow execution data such as task inputs and outputs.

> 2. **Fast registration bucket**: contains local code artifacts copied into the Flyte task container at runtime when using `union register` or `union run --remote --copy-all`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Code bundle bucket**: contains local code artifacts copied into the Flyte task container at runtime when using `union register` or `union run --remote --copy-all` in Flyte v1, or when using `flyte deploy` or `flyte run` in Flyte v2.
```

Reviewer: Maybe it's not a good idea to change "fast-registration" to "code bundling" as I think "fast-registration" is referencing in the helm chart. But it might be worth including the v2 commands.

                   "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
                   "ecr:DescribeImages",
                   "ecr:PutImage",
                   "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload",
                   "ecr:UploadLayerPart",
                   "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload"
               ],
               "Resource": "arn:aws:ecr:<AWS_REGION>:<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>:repository/<REPOSITORY>"
           }
       ]
   }
   ```

5. Annotate the `union-system` service account with the role ARN in your Helm values:

   ```yaml
   commonServiceAccount:
     annotations:
       eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: "arn:aws:iam::<account_id>:role/union-system-role"
   ```

## EKS configuration

Union recommends installing the following EKS add-ons:
  - CoreDNS
  - Amazon VPC CNI
  - Kube-proxy

Union supports Autoscaling and the use of spot (interruptible) instances.

## Assumptions

* You have a {{< key product_name >}} organization, and you know the control plane URL for your organization.
* You have a cluster name provided by or coordinated with Union.
* You have a Kubernetes cluster, running one of the most recent three minor K8s versions.
  [Learn more](https://kubernetes.io/releases/version-skew-policy/)

> * You have configured S3 bucket(s) and IAM role as described above.

Reviewer: Should we move the assumptions section to the top of the page? Right now we give details on s3 and iam before introducing them via the assumptions.
